README.md, before:

# ua-thesis-template

A thesis LaTeX template that complies with the University of Aveiro's
guidelines and provides a simple CLI workflow around `make` that was developed
and tested for cross-compatibility on Linux (Slackware, ArchLinux) and macOS
(High Sierra 10.13.6).

## Usage

Build a development version of the document:

```
make [build]
```

Continuously build the development version of the document:

```
make preview
```

This option is great when paired with a document viewer (such as Okular) which
automatically reloads the document on file change. This means you can keep
writing and on save the updated document is compiled and displayed!

Build versions of the document for publishing:

```
make print
make ebook
```

Run linters (for now only [proselint](http://proselint.com/)) against a TeX
file (e.g. chapter 1):

```
make lint [texfile=chapter1.tex]
```

If you do not specify the `texfile` to lint, then all TeX files in `chapters/`
will be linted.

Clean the build directory:

```
make clean[all]
```

`clean` will leave the output products (the PDFs) in place, while `cleanall`
will remove these too. If your document is not compiling for some reason and
you think you've already solved the problem in the LaTeX sources, maybe try a
`cleanall` before insisting. Sometimes the underlying build programs (namely
`latexmk`) get stuck in inconsistent temporary files.

## How to use the template

This is all great, but how can this repository be used as a starting point for
writing your own thesis?

In our opinion you have mostly three options:
- Download/clone the repository and copy *all* files to a directory of your
  desire, for instance to inside some special folder within you own thesis
  repository.  
  Notice that this will not allow you to easily keep up with this template
  should it change.
- Fork the repository to your own and work there. If you want to include it
  within your own thesis repository, you can use `git submodules` for this.
- Use `git subtree` to pull this repository to your main thesis repository and
  work directly there. Changes in your copy will be versioned by your main
  thesis repo, while you will still be able to pull new updates from here
  should they appear.

I've chosen the last of these options, as it seems to be the most flexible and
easy-to-use alternative. Here follow the main commands you will need should you
choose to go along with this too.
```
$ git subtree add  --prefix $DESTDIR git@github.com:fabiomaia/ua-thesis-template.git master --squash;
$ git subtree pull --prefix $DESTDIR git@github.com:fabiomaia/ua-thesis-template.git master --squash;
```

They should be self explanatory, but:
- The first of these will pull this repository for the first time to
  `$DESTDIR`.
- The second is used for subsequent pulls.

This assumes that you are within an already initialized git repo. Look for more
on the documentation.

## Dependencies

- A TeX distribution: TeX Live or MacTeX
- gs (for `make print`, `make ebook` and `simplify-colors.sh`)
- imagemagick and poppler (for `simplify-colors.sh`)
- pygments (for minted)

As for pygments and proselint, those can by installed with pip by issuing `pip
install -r requirements.txt` at the root of this repository.

On Ubuntu relatives the following dependencies, installable with `apt` may
also be required
- biber
- texlive-bibtex-extra
- texlive-latex-extra
- texlive-science

These endorse dependencies which may or may not come with the TeX Live package
distributed with your Linux distribution.

Usually TeX Live is split into a minimal package and a `texlive-extra` which is
filled with the remainder of TeX Live, be it fonts, styles, language support,
and so on. So, if a LaTeX dependency is missing on your installation, do verify
that you are not missing one of these packages.

## Authors

Tomás Oliveira e Silva created the [original
template](http://sweet.ua.pt/tos/TeX/ua_thesis.tgz) which was later picked up
by João Paulo Barraca who [improved and maintained it for
years](http://code.ua.pt//projects/latex-ua/repository).

This is a fork by Fábio Maia and Ricardo Jesus who wanted to further improve
the template and setup a clean environment and workflow for writing their MSc
thesis.

Commit message:

Squashed 'doc/' changes from b086ee0..dd1b85b
dd1b85b Fix error with pdfcomment
1cb6589 Merge pull request #14 from LudeeD/patch-2
3b94564 Update dependencies
b3c9c6a Merge pull request #13 from LudeeD/patch-1
52e0008 Update Documentation about overleaf use
1269078 Add support for Overleaf

git-subtree-dir: doc
git-subtree-split: dd1b85b7d9c6ca51545846746f9ce3337f2ec49c

README.md, after:

# ua-thesis-template

A thesis LaTeX template that complies with the University of Aveiro's
guidelines and provides a simple CLI workflow around `make` that was developed
and tested for cross-compatibility on Linux (Slackware, ArchLinux) and macOS
(High Sierra 10.13.6).

## Usage

Build a development version of the document:

```
make [build]
```

Continuously build the development version of the document:

```
make preview
```

This option is great when paired with a document viewer (such as Okular) which
automatically reloads the document on file change. This means you can keep
writing and on save the updated document is compiled and displayed!

Build versions of the document for publishing:

```
make print
make ebook
```

Run linters (for now only [proselint](http://proselint.com/)) against a TeX
file (e.g. chapter 1):

```
make lint [texfile=chapter1.tex]
```

If you do not specify the `texfile` to lint, then all TeX files in `chapters/`
will be linted.

Clean the build directory:

```
make clean[all]
```

`clean` will leave the output products (the PDFs) in place, while `cleanall`
will remove these too. If your document is not compiling for some reason and
you think you've already solved the problem in the LaTeX sources, maybe try a
`cleanall` before insisting. Sometimes the underlying build programs (namely
`latexmk`) get stuck in inconsistent temporary files.

## How to use the template

This is all great, but how can this repository be used as a starting point for
writing your own thesis?

In our opinion you have mostly three options:
- Download/clone the repository and copy *all* files to a directory of your
  desire, for instance to inside some special folder within you own thesis
  repository.  
  Notice that this will not allow you to easily keep up with this template
  should it change.
- Fork the repository to your own and work there. If you want to include it
  within your own thesis repository, you can use `git submodules` for this.
- Use `git subtree` to pull this repository to your main thesis repository and
  work directly there. Changes in your copy will be versioned by your main
  thesis repo, while you will still be able to pull new updates from here
  should they appear.

I've chosen the last of these options, as it seems to be the most flexible and
easy-to-use alternative. Here follow the main commands you will need should you
choose to go along with this too.
```
$ git subtree add  --prefix $DESTDIR git@github.com:fabiomaia/ua-thesis-template.git master --squash;
$ git subtree pull --prefix $DESTDIR git@github.com:fabiomaia/ua-thesis-template.git master --squash;
```

They should be self explanatory, but:
- The first of these will pull this repository for the first time to
  `$DESTDIR`.
- The second is used for subsequent pulls.

This assumes that you are within an already initialized git repo. Look for more
on the documentation.

## Use it in [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com)

It is possible to use this template in overleaf.

To enable it:

- in `matter.tex`change `\def\useoverleaf{0}`to 1
- add `fc-portuges.def`to the project the file be can found in [here](http://mirrors.ctan.org/install/macros/latex/contrib/fmtcount.tds.zip) 

## Dependencies

- A TeX distribution: TeX Live or MacTeX
- gs (for `make print`, `make ebook` and `simplify-colors.sh`)
- pandoc (for `make lint`)
- imagemagick and poppler (for `simplify-colors.sh`)
- pygments (for minted)

As for pygments and proselint, those can by installed with pip by issuing `pip
install -r requirements.txt` at the root of this repository.

On Ubuntu relatives the following dependencies, installable with `apt` may
also be required
- biber
- texlive-bibtex-extra
- texlive-latex-extra
- texlive-science

These endorse dependencies which may or may not come with the TeX Live package
distributed with your Linux distribution.

Usually TeX Live is split into a minimal package and a `texlive-extra` which is
filled with the remainder of TeX Live, be it fonts, styles, language support,
and so on. So, if a LaTeX dependency is missing on your installation, do verify
that you are not missing one of these packages.

## Authors

Tomás Oliveira e Silva created the [original
template](http://sweet.ua.pt/tos/TeX/ua_thesis.tgz) which was later picked up
by João Paulo Barraca who [improved and maintained it for
years](http://code.ua.pt//projects/latex-ua/repository).

This is a fork by Fábio Maia and Ricardo Jesus who wanted to further improve
the template and setup a clean environment and workflow for writing their MSc
thesis.
